Pages-and-Features.md, before:

# Pages and Features
===

## Dasboard

This will be the home screen of the application and the view that you are taken to once you have logged in. This screen will give you a glance of your school life and show you the most recent and relevant information.

- Warning notifications if high amount of lates, missing assignments, or significant grade drop in a class
- Module to submit assignments for classes
- To-Do module with list of assignments due today and tommorrow
- Module with broad overview of class averages
- Notifications of messages from teachers

## Class Page

This page will be the central spot for a certain class at a certain period. It will show anything relevant to that paticular class such as course info, upcoming assignments, and recently graded work. *If there are two sessions of the same class, one will be named "Class Title 1" and the other "Class Title 2". These 2 classes will be handled seperately in the backend.*

- Module showing attendance/lates
- Course description info
- Listing of class periods
- Room number
- Teacher's name and contact info, link to teacher's profile
- Class weight and and credit
- Class wide notifications
- Upcoming assignments (Integrated with the to-do module)
- Graded assignments
- Average for class
- Graphs, charts, and analytics showing class average over time

## Student Profile Page

This page will display information relating to the logged-in student. Only the logged-in student can see their own profiles; teachers and other students can not see other students' profile pages.

- Module showing class schedule
- Module showing conduct information and attendance
- Module with personal information for that student (Locker number, locker combination, and homeroom number, grade level, photo, name)
- Module showing grade history and charts and graphs to visualize change over time
- Module showing list of classes
- Module showing list of groups involved in
- **Potentially allow students to add a nickname, if that is what they go by (E.g. A student named John who goes by Greg)**
	- Need to ensure this isn't abused (E.g A student adding a fake 'joke name')

## Messages Page

An inbox and area to send messages between a teacher and a student.

- Module showing new and past private messages with teachers (Student must initiate the conversation thread with a teacher)
- Module showing class-wide or group-wide messages from a teacher (Or appointed student for a group)
- Module allowing one to write and send a new message to a teacher or to the leaders of a group the student is involved in

## Calendar Page

This page will display a month view calendar as well as a agenda-today view that will display any upcoming due dates for assignments in classes, calendar for groups a student is involved in, and other calendars a student might want to add.

- Calendar with 2 views, month and agenda-today
- Calendar showing upcoming due dates for assignments in classes
- The calendars of groups a student is a member of will be displayed (Sport calendar, play/musical calendar, NHS calendar...)
- Other calendars will be able to be displayed, such as HS-wide events, Cafeteria Lunch Schedule
- Ability to show/hide calendars

## To-Do Page

This page will list any upcoming assignments in a task-like view. Tasks will automatically be added by the teachers of classes you are involved in, or by groups that you are involved in. To-Do's will be seperated in to lists, which will be the different classes or groups you are in. The main screen will be a smart list showing the tasks you have due today and tommorrow. There will be other "smart lists" such as a week view, etc... The to-do module will also allow you to create your own lists and tasks that aren't tied to a specific class.

- Module that shows upcoming assignments in task-like view
- Module that allows you to switch between lists of tasks (different classes, groups, smart lists, or your own)
- Module that allows you to create new tasks

## Teacher Profile Page

This page will essentially be a glorified buisness card for teachers. The page will contain your basic contact information, information by the teacher about themselves, the teacher's website, and the ability to contact a teacher.

Commit message:

Added upload work/live module information

Pages-and-Features.md, after:

# Pages and Features

## Dasboard

This will be the home screen of the application and the view that you are taken to once you have logged in. This screen will give you a glance of your school life and show you the most recent and relevant information.

- Warning notifications if high amount of lates, missing assignments, or significant grade drop in a class
- Module to submit assignments for classes
- To-Do module with list of assignments due today and tommorrow
- Module with broad overview of class averages
- Notifications of messages from teachers
- Module allowing you to "check-in" to your current class by entering in a 4 digit code generated by the teacher and projected on the board

## Class Page

This page will be the central spot for a certain class at a certain period. It will show anything relevant to that paticular class such as course info, upcoming assignments, and recently graded work. *If there are two sessions of the same class, one will be named "Class Title 1" and the other "Class Title 2". These 2 classes will be handled seperately in the backend.*

- Module showing attendance/lates
- Course description info
- Listing of class periods
- Room number
- Teacher's name and contact info, link to teacher's profile
- Class weight and and credit
- Class wide notifications
- Upcoming assignments (Integrated with the to-do module)
- Graded assignments
- Average for class
- Graphs, charts, and analytics showing class average over time
- Module showing live sessions going on
	- Teacher can stream their desktop live to students (to show a presentation)
	- Teacher can start a live class chat allowing students to ask questions or give responses through the chat function
		- There would be settings to change it from everyone in the class seeing what everyone posts, or only the teacher seeing what students post
	- Simple, Real-Time document editor for collaboration
		- The intended purpose for this would be for the whole class to work on a document together, or small groups all working on a document
		- The teacher would setup the live document which the students would be able to then join, after the activity is done, the teacher could close the live document barring it from students to view or edit, but still keeping a copy of the document for the teacher
		- **This would not** be for students to individually create their own documents and then allow the teacher to edit online, that would be handle automatically under the normal "submit work" module
- Module with uploaded video recordings of lessons, or the lesson PowerPoint uploaded

## Student Profile Page

This page will display information relating to the logged-in student. Only the logged-in student can see their own profiles; teachers and other students can not see other students' profile pages.

- Module showing class schedule
- Module showing conduct information and attendance
- Module with personal information for that student (Locker number, locker combination, and homeroom number, grade level, photo, name)
- Module showing grade history and charts and graphs to visualize change over time
- Module showing list of classes
- Module showing list of groups involved in
- **Potentially allow students to add a nickname, if that is what they go by (E.g. A student named John who goes by Greg)**
	- Need to ensure this isn't abused (E.g A student adding a fake 'joke name')

## Messages Page

An inbox and area to send messages between a teacher and a student.

- Module showing new and past private messages with teachers (Student must initiate the conversation thread with a teacher)
- Module showing class-wide or group-wide messages from a teacher (Or appointed student for a group)
- Module allowing one to write and send a new message to a teacher or to the leaders of a group the student is involved in

## Calendar Page

This page will display a month view calendar as well as a agenda-today view that will display any upcoming due dates for assignments in classes, calendar for groups a student is involved in, and other calendars a student might want to add.

- Calendar with 2 views, month and agenda-today
- Calendar showing upcoming due dates for assignments in classes
- The calendars of groups a student is a member of will be displayed (Sport calendar, play/musical calendar, NHS calendar...)
- Other calendars will be able to be displayed, such as HS-wide events, Cafeteria Lunch Schedule
- Ability to show/hide calendars

## To-Do Page

This page will list any upcoming assignments in a task-like view. Tasks will automatically be added by the teachers of classes you are involved in, or by groups that you are involved in. To-Do's will be seperated in to lists, which will be the different classes or groups you are in. The main screen will be a smart list showing the tasks you have due today and tommorrow. There will be other "smart lists" such as a week view, etc... The to-do module will also allow you to create your own lists and tasks that aren't tied to a specific class.

- Module that shows upcoming assignments in task-like view
- Module that allows you to switch between lists of tasks (different classes, groups, smart lists, or your own)
- Module that allows you to create new tasks

## Teacher Profile Page

This page will essentially be a glorified buisness card for teachers. The page will contain your basic contact information, information by the teacher about themselves, the teacher's website, and the ability to contact a teacher.

- Module showing photo, name, room/office number, and contact info
- Contact Button
- Link to teacher's website, if they have one

## Submit Work Page

This page will allow students to upload their work for assignments due. When uploading documents, the students will have to select a class, and then an assignment to submit work to the teacher. The students will also be able to select from basic text documents created within the web app. The student could also upload a document but not attach it to a class, so they can just access that file later from school (like a file locker).
